Recursion is a process in which a message calls itself continuously.
Lets start with a example here.
If we're trying to find the nth number in the Fibonacci sequence,
the nth number is larger than one.
We can do it iteratively or recursively.
The iterative solution is look like this.
So we start searching for the nth number here.
If we are going a loop,
and we keep adding that to the a and b until we find the nth number.
We can do it in recursive way.
As I can see that,
we define a recursive method.
Instead of this method,
we are calling itself.
Every time we are decreasing to n number,
and two to n number is less or equals to one and we return the number.
So let's see the pros and cons using the recursion.
Here are some pros to using recursion.
It can reduce length of the program,
it's very flexible in data structure like stacks,
queues, and linked list.
You can use also use data structure in recursion.
It can worked big and complex iterative solution to easy and simple union recursively.
Algorithms can be defined recursively,
which will make it easier to visualize and understand.
Let's see the cons of using recursion.
First, it can be slower than iteration,
because in addition to processing to loop content,
it has to deal with the recursive call stack frame.
Which will mean more code is run.
Which means it will slower the iteration.
Other than that, it's logical but difficult to track and debug.
It requires extra storage space because
every recursive calls separate memory will be allocated for the variables.
The recursive function also throw
a Stack Overflow Exception when processing or operations are too large.
If you are interested to know more about recursion,
please take a look at the link I gave you.
We have a coding problem that can use to practice recursion.